blog: Release 1.1 (#238)
flowforge/website: src/blog/2022/11/flowforge-1-1-released.md

---
title: FlowForge 1.1 released with X and Y
subtitle: TODO
description: TODO
date: 2022-10-27 18:00:00.0
authors: ["rob-marcer"]
video: TODO
---

TODO

<!--more-->

Our 12th release, with loads of goodies...

## Features

## Improvements

A lot of effort has been put in the install documentation in this release. Most
notably there's no requirement to setup Mosquitto in the local install method

> and XYZ.

Author: ```suggestion
and [updated all screenshots](https://github.com/flowforge/flowforge/pull/1189) after the redesign.
```

---

> title: FlowForge 1.1 released

Author: Highlight the tag line feature in the title please

Reviewer: Not sure what this means. I've reworked the whole blog post since this comment so I may have addressed your point in the latest version.

Author: For example;

> FlowForge 1.1 now includes persistent file storage

"FlowForge <version> released" is super dry IMO

subtitle: Node-RED editor on Devices, persistant file storage and import snapshots from outside FlowForge

> description: Node-RED editor on Devices, persistant file storage and import snapshots from outside FlowForge

Author: Not sure when the subtitle or description is used, but it seems they shouldn't be the same.

Reviewer: One is used on the blog index, the other in the header of each blog post. I think it's appropriate for them to be the same for our usage.

date: 2022-11-24 18:00:00.0
authors: ["rob-marcer"]
video: TODO
---

> Edit your flows directly on your FlowForge Devices, persist files on your FlowForge projects and import Node-RED snapshots into FlowForge.

Author: ```suggestion
Edit your flows directly on your FlowForge Devices, persist files on your FlowForge projects, and import Node-RED snapshots into FlowForge.
```

<!--more-->

Keep reading for the details of what's in this release or you can watch our 1 minute roundup video of the new release above. 

We're pleased to announce version 1.1 is now available. The next release of the FlowForge application containing new features, a number of improvements, and bug fixes. Keep reading for a promotion code to get your first month free on FlowForge Cloud. 

## Features

> [Node-RED Editor on Devices](https://github.com/flowforge/flowforge/issues/1012) We've added the ability for you to edit flows directly on your Devices. 

Author: Also good to mention how these nodes work for devices: https://github.com/flowforge/flowforge/issues/1202#issuecomment-1323526860

> [Node-RED Editor on Devices](https://github.com/flowforge/flowforge/issues/1012) We've added the ability for you to edit flows directly on your Devices. 

Reviewer 2: This item is *not* in the 1.1 plan. We do not expose the editor on devices. This was mentioned as one possible item in the Epic for Dev Experience on devices. The item that is being shipped this release is the Node-RED Plugin that allows snapshots to be pushed from outside of the platform.

> [Persistant File Storage](https://github.com/flowforge/flowforge/issues/998) We've completed the first steps to allow files to be created and persisted within your projects. This can be used to store files locally to log data or store current settings for later retrieval. 

Author: I'd go with something more like: 

Files are important to store analysis or to start processing of data in Node-RED. Using files on FlowForge Cloud or self-managed installs on Kubernetes or Docker use containers to store files. When a stack is updated to for example upgrade the Node-RED version these files are lost. Persistant files store these files on a persistant object storage. The workflow doesn't change for the user, as we've replaced the file nodes.

That states the problem with 1.0, when a user might run into this problem, and lastly how we help them to fix it.

Author: Also, link to the docs please

Reviewer: I've reworded the explanations for each headline feature. Agreed that links to the docs would be useful but I'll need help to work out how to link to docs which are not yet in place. I suggest once we've rolled out 1.1 we edit in the docs links to the release blog.

> [Import Snapshots from Outside FlowForge](https://github.com/flowforge/flowforge/issues/1165) You can now take flows created outside of FlowForge and easily import them into your projects. 

Author: What's the users current problem, when do they encounter it? What do we now offer, and why is it better than what used to be in FlowForge or other tools?

Reviewer: Addressed this in the latest edits hopefully.

> ## Improvements

Author: Default stack and template when installing

Reviewer: I can't find an issue for this in 1.1 or in the roadmap, I agree it's a good feature though and should be mentioned. Do you have link to the issue?

A lot of effort has been put in the install documentation in this release. Most
notably there's no requirement to setup Mosquitto in the local install method

> and [updated all screenshots](https://github.com/flowforge/flowforge/pull/1189) after the redesign.

Author: Add a paragraph with the other documentation improvements too. 

Problem: Took long to install FlowForge
When: New users trying to install through LocalFS
Why: We believe that FlowForge offers tremendous value, for free
So: The wizard now installs a default stack and template (Which are advanced topics, now admins can deal with them later)

Author: Problem: Not sure how to configure Mosquitto
When: Installing FF with LocalFS
Why: Devices update faster with MQTT
So: A default conf file is provided

See also: https://github.com/flowforge/installer/issues/50

> ## Bug Fixes

Author: https://github.com/flowforge/flowforge/issues/1186

Reviewer: I've reworked this section and remove that specific link, I didn't feel we should call out specific docs changes.

## Contributors

We'd like the thank the following for their contributions to this release:

TODO

As an open-source project, we welcome the community involvement in what we're building. If you're interested in contributing, checkout our [guide in the docs](https://flowforge.com/docs/contribute/).

### Try it out

> [Sign up for FlowForge Cloud](https://app.flowforge.com/account/create?code=RELEASE11) with this link  or at the checkout enter the code **RELEASE11** to get your first project free for a month.

Reviewer: Added a sentence and link around installing the FOSS version of FF.

### Upgrading FlowForge

> [FlowForge Cloud](https://app.flowforge.com) is already running 1.1 and the stacks updated. Upgrade your project stacks to the latest version to make sure you get all the latest changes.

Reviewer: I don't agree, the reader has just read all the features and bug fixes (or chosen to skip past them). Rewording the features here will make the final sentence very long and awkward to read.

If you installed a previous version of FlowForge and want to upgrade, our documentation provides a

> guide for [upgrading FlowForge on a local server](http://flowforge.com/docs/install#upgrade).

Author: Most servers aren't local?

```suggestion
guide for [upgrading your FlowForge instance](http://flowforge.com/docs/install#upgrade).
```

### Getting help

If you hit any problems with the platform, or have questions to ask, please do
raise an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/flowforge/flowforge/issues).
That also includes if you have any feedback or feature requests.

> Customers of FlowForge Cloud can raise a ticket by emailing support@flowforge.com

Reviewer: I've loosened the wording, added a link to the docs and reordered the items in this section.

---
title: FlowForge 1.1 released
subtitle: In FlowForge 1.1, we are continuing to add the features we believe makes FlowForge the best solution for running Node-RED in production in a secure, scalable, and team-based environment.
description: In FlowForge 1.1, we are continuing to add the features we believe makes FlowForge the best solution for running Node-RED in production in a secure, scalable, and team-based environment.
date: 2022-11-24 18:00:00.0
authors: ["rob-marcer"]
video: TODO
---

> Persist files on your FlowForge projects, import Node-RED snapshots into FlowForge directly from the Node-RED editor and use our new interface for managing Project Deployments

Author: The messaging around importing snapshots I think doesn't cover what users will use this for.

We now allow everyone to develop locally on the bench and push updates to all the project deployments. The mechanics under the hood are through snapshots, sure. But that's not the value we offer.

Author: Also, a sentence ends with a full stop

Author: Missing oxford comma too

---
title: FlowForge 1.1 released

> subtitle: In FlowForge 1.1, we are continuing to add the features we believe makes FlowForge the best solution for running Node-RED in production in a secure, scalable, and team-based environment.

Author: <img width="903" alt="Screenshot 2022-11-24 at 08 10 18" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2529595/203717034-504f3a28-a43e-4a49-9e01-2dc0f30073b6.png">

The way this renders creates a stutter. 

```suggestion
subtitle: A new set of features to improve FlowForge as the best solution for running Node-RED in production in a secure, scalable, and team-based environment.
```
